OK, so you have...
The prompt, right?
And what you want to do is...
Here, this is the prompt part P.
Thimo.
Then you have some blank.
That's UR.
How do you call it in the paper? It's ZZ,
no?
Yeah, ZZZ.
So that's the part you want to fill in.
It's missing.
And then you have the continuation, right?
Which is,
so this one here is X in their case.
And this one is X,
and this one they it's Y, you know.
Yeah, yeah.
OK, and you want to sample P of Z given?
X&Y, right?
That's what they wanted to do, right?
In the paper.
Okay, and they reformulated this one,
right? So something like this.
Basically,
they made the prompt like beginning is
given X.
Exactly.
Backslash and and is given why,
and then what is the middle?
Beginning, so.
Exactly, so you short.
Yeah.
Use for inference.
This structure.
and what they have in there.
In their paper, so why, and then,
and then here comes the infilling, right?
That's what the model samples that, right?
Okay, and you run?
First,
first you try auto-regressive sampling of
this part, right? So, first experiment.
Uh, wait side with with uh.
like this.
Thanks, yeah, so both experiment.
Ron.
The Law Labs.
Good.
Autoregressive sampling.
Okay, so that's vanilla,
the vanilla sampling, right?
But you use the...
Ohh.
Can you scroll down a little? Okay,
I think I can.
Wait, wait, wait.
I just tried to make this smaller,
but there are no options. OK.
The second one is.
Well, I don't too biased.
But...
You keep the structure, right?
So if you flip a token, right,
just one token, then you would have...
Z is just one token, okay?
And then you say, beginning is X.
just skipping Z, right? And then N is Y,
and then you run your Laudenbach dynamics.
You.
That's on that one, right?
Uh, run my land dynamics for what?
So just on the red part here, just on,
that's one token here then in this case,
in your new experiment, you just run LD.
Did you, did you put end as YX as well?
Sorry? Uh, yeah, sorry. Yeah, yeah.
That's it. Whoops. That's why.
Very good.
OK.
Yeah, I got it, but uh,
shouldn't it work just normally with with
the generation as well?
No, I guess it's.
Like with the prompt that they gave us.
So it should, it should work like this.
It should,
it should be able to do it right.
Like I just ran it with the prompt they
gave us.
In the paper, like both,
like the base model and the G FlowNet,
let me just send it on you on Slack.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that you can do exactly,
and then if you just have one token and
Bpe.
you run dynamics on one token here,
and otherwise you then run the dynamics
on this full part here, right?
But it's always at the end,
so you should be,
you should stick to the structure that it
was fine-tuned on, because...
Yeah.
I guess just on this part here,
just on this part,
Mm.
the energy surface is kind of calibrated,
right? This at the beginning,
Yeah, I am.
it's where you condition on, right?
So this is not...
I guess.
Not effective somehow, right?
Yeah,
but the thing is the problem I'm facing
is like I sent you a screenshot on Sclack
if you can check it once.
Yeah, yeah, right.
So basically I ran it on the both like
base model and G flow net model.
And both are performing bad in this case.
The G flow net should work well, right?
And.
So what setup is this now? So this is now,
ah, okay. Okay.
This is already this experiment now.
Yeah, yeah, but with outline, just normal,
like a normal sampling.
EIS.
And this is cheap on it now or just GPT?
Both,
they are both results like outputs base
and outputs G flow if we check the last
two outputs.
All good things.
Ohh.
OK, the middle,
the the chief on that output is garbage,
no?
Yeah, it's garbage.
And then it's not trained well.
Okay, but the other one is also garbage,
no?
Yeah, like it's not doing the...
Yes.
It's not making sense, right?
Yeah, it's not making sense,
but it's doing continuous continuation,
but obviously it was not trained on like
this infilling experiment,
No.
so it's kind of working well to be this
one. It's just doing the continuation,
like one of them was a giant frog,
he was a giant frog.
Mm.
So like something better than some random
symbols.
Okay, so how do you know,
do you know if this thing converged
actually during training?
So do you have some, how the loss behaves?
So this is already converged or is it
just early during training?
Like it was trained using like I do have
logs.
Ohh.
Hey.
Hello.
Jun.
Focusing now.
OK, let me just share my screen. So,
these are the logs of...
Ohh.
The G Flow Net training,
basically just showing the rollout.
Mhm.
Can you see?
And last, I cannot see, well,
can you zoom in?
Oh yeah, one second, let me just...
Is this better now, or this should?
Mmh.
So, this is the 500%, and...
The reward and the negative.
I didn't go down, right?
And you stopped at the end.
So this is all the...
Revelations that it did.
Sorry?
So this is, the log is,
the training is done after the last row.
Yeah, yeah, like it is the,
like right now we are at last row,
You are, or does it continue?
like it, this was like a huge log,
the it started with,
let me show you this log, like 20,
000 loss,
Yeah.
paying loss and reward was minus
seventy-one,
like I think it was just like waiting a
lot, but, and in the end...
The loss was minus 800 something, 700,
600, training loss at least.
Ohh.
Mm.
Okay, but why is it sometimes positive,
sometimes negative reward?
Like, it's every time negative,
reward is negative then.
Okay,
then just the negatives are sometimes not
shown here. Okay.
Yeah.
Okay, so reward went up. That's good.
What was it at the beginning again?
A few 100, right?
Yeah, the few 100,
but a few I had minus 28 as well, like,
so it's varying A lot. Let me show you.
So it's minus 70, minus 100, minus 29.
Ohh.
And if it went down, so yeah,
so it's very varying A lot.
See this.
Mhm.
I would say it became more consistent.
What is log Z?
Ah, lousy, lousy was.
Log Z was that right?
Basically, in the G. in the sub T.V. loss,
they had this thing right that it was the.
probability and but they removed this
term because in like normal language
Ohh.
models.
Yeah, yeah, okay, yeah, but okay,
so what is the difference between the
It's like just one.
evil reward and the reward?
Because the numbers,
they look quite apart, right?
Yeah, even word is like 0 always.
I'm not sure, actually. I will need to.
And does it, does it go up?
No, I don't think so. Let me...
Sure.
Do.
Like this is 0 every time.
That's strange, right?
Yeah.
Should I look into its training, like,
what my?
Yeah, I think you need to, maybe.
Why, why it didn't work?
Yeah,
because in the paper they do say it works
well, so I mean it should work well.
Yeah, that's always,
but you'd never know with which
Ana.
parameters they run it, really.
I mean,
I'm just using the parameters they gave
it in the code.
And...
Mhm.
Can you check maybe if the learning rate
was defined differently in the paper and
Thank you.
the code version?
It seems like it's very noisy,
the training, so maybe,
maybe there's something we missed.
How long,
how long did the fine tuning take?
Like A day, I think.
Okay, that's good.
Yeah.
Check for learning rate parameters if
they are given in the paper and compared
to the code if the configuration is the
same.
It seems like this thing just diverged to
something.
And the question is also what is eval
reward and what is reward?
So is it on two different data sets and
the
And one is the training reward,
could be seems like training loss and
training reward,
and the first one is eval reward, and...
It's strange that it's zero, right?
And the other ones are all negative.
So if it would be bad,
I would anticipate that it's minus 1100,
whatever.
So it seems to be calculated on different
Mm.
basis.
I don't know. You should check that one.
Okay.
Um, okay.
Doesn't seem like they have given the
learning rate or maybe in appendix.
Mhm.
I'll check the appendix.
Mmh.
Okay.
Okay, can you do this?
And we talk tomorrow in the morning, yeah,
Yeah, yeah.
in the office. And I also,
when do you need to hand in the thesis?
In end of August.
End of August. Okay. Okay,
so you still have some time. Okay.
But the problem is the compute will go,
right? So...
The.
Yeah, yeah,
but if we are using like GPT-2,
then I think I can just run it on my
laptop.
Really? Okay.
Yeah,
but I won't be able to do this fine
tuning of like GFlow nets.
OKOKOK.
Like the normal sampling and like if I'm
doing anything with GPD2,
I can do that on my laptop.
I think I have like 6 GB of VRAM.
Mhm.
That would be enough for that.
I think if we have like a small data set.
Mmh.
Yeah.
Okay, so then,
but you need some time to write, right?
So we would have...
I mean,
I'm writing the thes concurrently as well,
like...
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, OK.
Whatever I'm results I'm like,
till the I've already done most of it,
Yeah.
most of it,
like right now I'll add stuff about
Okay.
GFlowNets once we have some like concrete
stuff, yeah.
Okay, okay, okay, okay,
then it's then it's good. Yeah,
Mhm.
I'm just thinking about the timing,
but then it's fine, then it's fine. Okay,
And.
okay, good. Yeah,
so then let's meet tomorrow in the office.
You debug this one,
have a look what eval reward is,
Okay.
and if they use the correct learning rate
in the in the code that they provided.
MM.
Right, it seems it doesn't work,
the training that they did, and...
Mm.
Yeah.
Let me think about if we can.
If you can, maybe do it more easy,
so that the only thing that is that we
hope that it is doing is that it makes
the the energy of the full sequence
somehow reflect the probability of the
sequence, right? And maybe...
We can do it in a simpler way.
So to fine-tune it in a simpler way,
I'm not sure. Let me think about that one.
Bac.
Yeah.
But aren't we using the gradients,
gradient landscape for this Lanjoin
dynamics?
But is the best fine tuning like,
like best actually changing the landscape?
Or the energy, because it's just like...
Well, it should, right? Because you...
Yeah, I mean.
What it tries to do is it tries to align
the energy that it outputs with the with
the reward that you get that you give it,
right?
And the reward is defined on the full
sequence at your info,
Mhm.
so somehow it tries to match this,
and yeah.
The question is,
if it's overdone like this, right,
if we can do it more easily.
Mmh.
Yeah.
Okay.
So if you can just fine-tune it for score
matching, that's what we need, right?
Oh.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay, I'll do this. I'll do forget.
Mm.
Maybe we can, yeah. Okay,
let's talk to you tomorrow. Okay,
then just debug this one, right?
And then I will be in office tomorrow
Mhm.
from, I think, latest 10 A.m.
so we can really have a have a long
session and make it work, I hope.
Yo.
And.
Okay.
Okay then, see you. Bye.
Yeah, see you then, Sarthak. Bye bye.
All right. Thank you.